In this lecture, you'll learn about traffic shaping and policing when people talk about queues in general,
they're probably talking about queuing.
But there are other queue mechanisms available like shipping and policing, which are also commonly
used.
Traffic shaping and policing can be used to control traffic rate.
They both measure the rate of traffic going through an interface and take an action if the rate is above
it configured limit.
If you look at a router, it knows the amount of traffic that's going through its interfaces.
You can see that if you do a interface command.
So because it knows how much traffic is going through the interfaces, you can configure it to take
an action if it goes above a certain rate.
Traffic shaping and policing both work and a very similar fashion, but the action that they take is
different.
So it's used for different scenarios that will cover as we go through this picture, traffic shaping
buffers, any access traffic.
So the overall traffic reach these within your desired rate limit.
So you can think of traffic shaping as putting the brakes on.
Traffic is going too fast.
It keeps it within the required limit and it moves the traffic flow.
Traffic policing, on the other hand, drops are remarks.
Assess traffic to enforce the specified rate limit to traffic.
Policing is much more aggressive if the limit goes up, if traffic goes above the limit that you set
said usually you're going to just drop by excess traffic.
Roggeveen buffeting it.
So it just gets wound down.
So you'll see that traffic shaping is usually used on the customer side of a link and policing is used
on the other side on the service provider.
You can use them for different scenarios as well.
But what's most common, and I'll cover that in more detail as we go through this picture classification
can be used in your shaping or policing policy to configure different rates for different traffic types.
For example, you could download a different rate for traffic that is marked as DPF then you only know
for traffic that is marked as F 31.
So that is optional.
You can apply the rate to the aggregate of all traffic or you can have different rates for different
traffic times.
So let's look at the scenarios where this would be used as the easiest way to understand it.
First one is we are looking at it from the point of view of the service provider in the example the
customer has provisioned and ampules VPN between their headquarters and their branch offices.
The physical links from Michy to the drivers on both sides are 100 megabits per second fastest rate,
but the customer has only paid for 10 megabits per second in the contract with the service provider.
That's what's agreed and or service level agreement.
Traffic is going to go at the rate that the physical interface is set, which is 100 megabits per second
in this example.
But a way that you can influence the rate is by using policing or shaping.
So any example here, the customer have got 100 megabits per second on broadband, but they've only
actually paid for 10 megabits per second.
So the service provider is not going to be sending traffic all the way across their core 100 megabits
per second for this customer.
They're going to limit it to 10 megabits per second when it comes inbound on the PPI.
So that's what the service provider is going to do.
They will configure a policing kiosk policy on both PS on the interface facing the sheet and the inbound
direction.
So whenever any traffic comes in, if it comes in at a rate higher than 10 megabits per second, the
access traffic is just going to get dropped to the service provider is going to limit the customer to
about 10 megabits per second worth of bandwidth that they've paid for.
You will see this being used very commonly.
Another place where you can see policing being used not at service providers, but within normal enterprises
and common use case here is worm on junk traffic mitigation.
What a worm is, is that's a type of virus.
Obviously, you don't want that type of traffic on your network at all.
Definitely not.
Taking up your bandwidth to an enterprise can configure classification and marketing to recognize worms
and also junk traffic that they don't want on your network, like peer-to-peer file sharing applications
that bad traffic is known as scavenger traffic and recommended DCPI value to market with is DGP eight,
which is she asks one.
So once you've got the traffic classified and marked, you can then configure a policing policy which
is going to limit down to a tiny amount so it can't take up any bandwidth on your network.
So this will mean that if users are trying to share files like movies and stuff like that over your
one week, that's not a business case.
You don't want them doing it.
You can police the traffic right down so it doesn't take up any of your bandwidth for worms.
Obviously, you want to have antivirus on your users PCs so you don't get a worm in the first place.
But if you are infected with a worm, one of the really bad things that happens is it will start sending
traffic out, trying to infect other PCs.
And when it manages to do that, they'll do the same thing.
And it can quickly end up eating all of the bandwidth on your network by using policing for worm mitigation.
It doesn't stop you getting infected, but it stops the worm from taking up all your bandwidth and grinding
the network to a halt when you do get hit with one.
So it means it gives you time.
You can go and clean all those pieces that are not to get infected in the first place.
But this is good.
If you do get infected, it stops it from crashing your network.
OK, back onto that first scenario again, where we've got the customer with her HQ and our branch office
and they've got an employee VPN between the two sites and the physical links from each of the P are
100 meg and the provider is policing at 10 meg inbound on the drivers and the customer knows this.
So the customer knows if they send traffic at a rate higher than 10 megabits per second, the access
traffic is going to get dropped.
So if they do send at the higher rate, some traffic will get to the other side.
Some traffic will not.
In our scenario, we're using both voice on video.
And, you know, already that voice has strict quality requirements.
If a lot of the packets are getting dropped, it's going to be a terrible quality phone call.
So the customers, they have to make sure that they don't have any of those voice pockets being dropped.
And the way that they do that is by making sure that we don't send a rate higher than 10 megabits per
second.
Now, you know already that they can't use the bandwidth statement on the interface to do that.
The bandwidth statement effects of our software policy like your routing protocols.
But it doesn't actually affect the rate that topic is setting up.
The way that we can affect the traffic is sent is by configuring a shaping policy outbound on BOYCIE
routers.
So let's have a look and see how we're going to configure that.
We configure a policy map here.
I've called it one edge and actually cross-class class default and shape average to ten megabits per
second.
I didn't need to configure any of our class maps here because the policy map, the shaper is being applied
to all traffic to class class default makes it take effect on all traffic and I'm shaping it to ten
megabits per second.
Then I need to remember to apply it to the interface with my service policy.
So interface fast Ethernet zero zero.
I do that on Bouffe.
She writers on the outside interface facing towards the provider and I say service policy I one edge.
No, all traffic is going to be shaped to ten megabits per second.
It's not going to go above that.
So the provider is not going to drop any traffic.
But we've got another problem as well now, so let's have a look at that and let's see what our scenario
was.
So we've got a ten megabits per second assembly on the one outside interface.
The physical speed of human outside interface was 100 megabits per second.
So we've put the Shapard on there to ship all traffic to 10 megabits per second to guarantee that the
service provider won't drop any of our traffic.
We've got a 100 megabits per second fastest bernet interface on the inside, facing towards Milan as
well on both sides.
And we have figured out how much bandwidth we need for our different traffic types.
We need one megabits per second for voice, three megabits per second for video on six megabits per
second for data.
So that's why we paid for a tanmay going from the provider.
But data will sometimes burst above six megabits per second, creating congestion because we've got
about 100 megabits per second interface on the inside.
We're shaping to 10 megabits per second on the outside.
So if we have traffic coming in at a rate more than 10 megabits per second, we're going to get congestion
there.
And let's see that there has burst above six megabits per second.
We've now got 12 megabits per second worth of traffic coming in, but we're trying to squeeze 12 meg
into a 10 meg pipe.
It's not going to go.
So we've got congestion there.
It's going to affect the quality for all of our traffic.
And again, we're going to have bad quality voice and video calls if that happens.
So we don't just have a shape or a shape traffic to 10 megabits per second.
We also need to have an AOL queue policy here as well.
So let's have a look at the config for that same policy that you saw before for AOL.
Cubitt is going to be a twist here.
So we've got the class maps to specify the traffic we're interested in voice match, IP, DPF Map,
Video Match IP, DPF or A1 and flashmob signalling match IPD free.
Then we've got the policy map to see, but we're going and do with it policy amount of code it nested.
You'll see why in a second for class voice which was video PEF, the voice traffic priority one or two
for Sueur, guaranteeing it one megabits per second worth of bandwidth required.
And we're putting it in the priority queue class video prior to E3 07 to its getting its three megabits
per second cost, signaling bandwidth one to eight and in class cost default for everything else.
Fair.
Q No, you can only apply one policy map, one service policy to the interface.
So what we do is this AOL Q policy that we've just created to provide the voice in the video topic.
We nashed that inside the ship policy.
So underneath policy, not one edge.
We say service policy nested in there and it's the policy map, one edge as applied interface level.
So the interface wabble, we're shaping all traffic to ten megabits per second if we need to try to
send more than ten megabits per second through there, through our voice on our video traffic is going
to go straight to the front and B, Q so this guarantees that neurotrophic is going to get dropped because
we don't send more than what we've paid for the service provider.
And when we are trying to send more voice in, but you go straight to the front of the queue, so voice
in video still gets the service it requires.
OK, that was it.
That was everything for Kulash.
Again, don't worry about memorizing these configurations.
You don't need to know the configuration for the exam.
I'm just showing you here.
So you get a full understanding of how KUOW works.
OK, QSA done.
See you in the next section.